25 Nov 2025

Hello. To anyone crawling this repo, this should give a quick explanation 
for what you'll find. A "TL;DR" can be found at the bottom of this document
if you wouldn't like to read the rest.

My name is Spencer, on GitHub/GitLab you'll find me as "GrimQuagle". For
the past several years, I have been working for a company called "Fargo 
Additive Manufacturing Equipment 3D, LLC." as part of their IT department
and the only developer of the LulzBot-branded fork of UltiMaker's Cura 
slicing software. I had other duties as part of the job as well so this 
project could never be my sole focus but it was definitely one of the more 
prominent aspects of the job. I was the one who took the software from major
version 3 to 4 and as anyone who would care to attempt to compile the code 
you'll find here would find it is weeks if not days away from being a functional
version of 5.

Now, I'll openly admit that particularly over the past several months I have
been slacking. Very noticably, in fact. I had occasionally gone over a week 
without any notable progress on this project at all. I'd mainly place the 
blame for that on the fact that for the entire time I've been working with 
Cura LulzBot Edition, I have been the only person doing any work on it whatsoever.
I've been setting up everything for the build processes, I've been working on 
the installers, all the workflows, the servers needed for storing the artifacts
used in the builds, adapting the material and quality profiles for our printers,
adding and removing features as I'm asked by various higher-ups, bug testing, 
patching, releases, everything. Full stack, baby. As it would turn out, that 
apparently gets really, *REALLY* old. I have been so burnt out for well over a 
year now that even touching a computer outside of my work hours feels like a chore.

So, when you get insane levels of burn out, what do you do? Well, normally 
I'd expect that the best thing would be to either take some time off to 
refresh or maybe look for other opportunities. The former never seemed to 
work; I could take week long vacations and still dread coming back in to 
work the next day. As for the latter... I always felt like I would be abandoning 
my coworkers. I was the only one at this small company who was knowledgable 
about how this program worked and was built. The company is small and would 
seldom ever hire anyone (not to mention that given the position, I was arguably 
paid fairly poorly) so I knew if I left, CuraLE would stay exactly how it was 
for who knows how long and in time that would really hurt the people still at 
the company.

Of course, I did eventually realize the fallacy of this thinking. I need to 
prioritize myself, who I want to be and what I need to do to get myself there. 
It was too little, too late. As people in this line of work would probably know, 
shortly after 2020 there was something of a "bubble" that formed in the tech job 
market. IT professionals were in high demand as the amount of people working from 
home grew. Companies were hiring on people like never before to build up their 
tech ecosystems to support the shift away from the office. Unfortunately, it was 
never going to last. A little over a year ago, the bubble finally burst and the job 
market for people working in IT, software, and all sorts of CompSci related fields 
turned into a situation where you had tens of thousands of very qualified people 
who were just laid off from their FAANG level jobs looking for new work while 
nobody was wanting to hire, leaving people with less experience almost entirely 
screwed for new work opportunities. Even if I wanted to leave and start again 
somewhere new and never think about LulzBot again, I really had nowhere to go.

So I stayed. I kept trudging along, getting just enough done to keep folks happy 
with my performance and to stay left alone. I've felt like I've been stuck. 
Nowhere to go. Just going through the motions so I can sleep in a bed and eat. 
Some will say that's really just what work is and while to a point it's definitely
true, I also feel as though going home day after day feeling like I had contributed 
nearly nothing of value to anything and spent an entire day rotting in an office 
chair pretending to work was not doing great things to my mental health during 
this time. What else was I going to do, though? I couldn't really afford to quit 
without a plan and any other plans I could come up with were too risky to bother 
with when, while I hated it, I did already have a job that paid *well enough* 
and where expectations of me were low. 

Keep going for around a year of that and we arrive at current day. Things around 
FAME3D had been changing as of late. Lots more focus on using our 3D printer farm
for external projects than for making and selling printers. R&D has been putting 
out new developments to the LulzBot printers at a snail's pace. Recently, the owner
of the company had even decided to branch into creating a children's board game 
using 3D-printed parts. Even from back in my little programming nook away from 
most of my coworkers, the mood in the air radiating from all corners of the building
reeked of low morale and uncertainty. Then, yesterday, on Monday November 24th, 
the decision appeared to have finally come down from the owner that there needed 
to be a change and several people within the company, myself included, were blindsided 
by a quick and decisive round of layoffs.

I have no idea what the full extent of this was, as I have honestly not really wanted to 
know. From where I sit and from the changes I have personally seen, however, I get the 
feeling that LulzBot may well and truly be dead and the company is shifting fully to 
custom order bulk 3D printed parts for large clients. I do not know for certain and take 
this with a grain of salt but I believe that as part of the layoff, neither full-time 
salesperson for the LulzBot printers survived the cull.

So. I suppose that's probably it then.

Back to the topic of this project. Since I have been shown the door, I will not be 
working on this software moving forward in any professional capacity. There is a *REMOTE* 
chance I may clone the repos to my account and at the very least release a working 
version of 5, but we will see if some time off provided by my unemployment is able to 
revive any passion I may have initially had for the project. I must say, it really does 
feel wrong putting all this time into the project and then just leaving it to rot so 
close to a working release.

If there is anyone who would like to work on the project and continue moving it forward, 
you can feel free. If you build from branch 5.11 in this repo, you should get something 
resembling a working version of the software. It's not polished but it's something. I won't 
promise to help with any attempts at this, but I'll definitely leave the door open for 
anyone who would like to reach out for either more information or just potentially some 
help to get everything working again.

Alright. With that, this is my little bit of closure that I wanted to write just to get it 
off of my chest. This happened so suddenly and I have been really struggling to sleep. I'd 
like to thank anyone who has used and enjoyed LulzBot printers and anyone who may have seen 
me at the few RepRap shows I've attended over the years. I really do appreciate knowing that 
there are people out there who have been impacted by my work at this company for the past 
several years, regardless of how small or negligible of an impact that may be. As a tinkerer 
and creator, I really do have a passion for this sort of project and for the Open Source 
community as a whole and have always tried to make the experience of creating a slightly less 
painful or awkward one and I hope that I have succeeded at least in part.

Thank you again. Maybe I'll see some of you again in the next chapter, wherever that might take me.

Spencer "GrimQuagle"
Now-Ex-CuraLE Dev


TL;DR: The only person working on Cura LulzBot Edition (myself) just got canned as part of a 
larger layoff. This project is probably dead now. The most up-to-date and functional code 
is in the 5.11 branch if you'd like to try your had at working on it yourself.
